Add documentation for LinknLink integration (#29881)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/linknlink.markdown

---
title: LinknLink
description: Instructions on setting up LinknLink within Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Remote
  - Sensor
ha_release: 2023.12
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_codeowners:
  - '@danielhiversen'
  - '@xuanxuan000'
ha_domain: linknlink
ha_config_flow: true
ha_platforms:
  - remote
  - sensor
ha_dhcp: true
ha_integration_type: integration
---

> The LinknLink integration allows you to control and monitor LinknLink universal remotes, smart plugs, power strips, switches and sensors. The following devices are supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The LinknLink integration allows you to control and monitor LinknLink universal remotes, smart plugs, power strips, switches, and sensors. The following devices are supported:
```
Serial comma as per [standards](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/documenting/standards/)

- Sensors: `ehub`, `eTHS`, `eMotion`
- Universal Remotes: `eHub`

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Entities and subdomains

> There is no more need to set up platforms, except for custom IR/RF switches. Once the device is configured, all entities will be created automatically.
> 
> The entities have the same name as the device by default. To change the name, icon or entity id, click the entity on the frontend and click the settings icon in the upper right. You can also disable the entity there if you don't think it is useful. Don't forget to click _Update_ to save your changes when you're done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no more need to set up platforms except for custom IR/RF switches. Once the device is configured all entities will be created automatically.

The entities have the same name as the device by default. To change the name, icon, or entity id select the entity on the frontend and click the settings icon in the upper right. You can also disable the entity there if you don't think it is useful. Don't forget to select _Update_ to save your changes when you're done.
```
Serial comma and convention is to use select over click if I recall correctly.

The entities are divided into four subdomains:

- [Remote](#remote)
- [Sensor](#sensor)

## Remote

The `remote` entities allow you to learn and send codes with universal remotes. They are created automatically when you configure devices with IR/RF capabilities.

### Learning commands

Use `remote.learn_command` to learn IR and RF codes. These codes are grouped by device and stored as commands in the [storage folder](#learned-codes-storage-location). They can be sent with the `remote.send_command` service later.

| Service data attribute | Optional | Description                           |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------- |
| `entity_id`            | no       | ID of the remote.                     |
| `device`               | no       | Name of the device to be controlled.  |
| `command`              | no       | Names of the commands to be learned.  |
| `command_type`         | yes      | Command type. `ir` (default) or `rf`. |
| `alternative`          | yes      | Toggle command indicator.             |

#### Learning IR codes

> To learn IR codes, call `remote.learn_command` with the device name and command to be learned:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn IR codes call `remote.learn_command` with the device name and command to be learned:
```

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
script:
  learn_tv_power:
    sequence:
      - service: remote.learn_command
        target:
          entity_id: remote.bedroom
        data:
          device: television
          command: power
```

> When the LED blinks, point the remote at the LinknLink device and press the button you want to learn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the LED blinks point the remote at the LinknLink device and press the button you want to learn.
```

After this, you can call `remote.send_command` with the same data to send the code. You can also access the code in the storage folder to build a custom IR/RF switch or send it with the prefix `b64:`.

#### Learning RF codes

Learning RF codes takes place in two steps. First call `remote.learn_command` with the `command_type: rf` option:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
script:
  learn_car_unlock:
    sequence:
      - service: remote.learn_command
        target:
          entity_id: remote.garage
        data:
          device: car
          command: unlock
          command_type: rf
```

> When the LED blinks for the first time, press and hold the button to sweep the frequency. Then wait for the LED to blink again and press the button a second time to capture the code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the LED blinks for the first time press and hold the button to sweep the frequency. Then wait for the LED to blink again and press the button a second time to capture the code.
```

The codes will be stored in the same way as the IR codes. You don't need to specify `command_type` to send them because this information is stored in the first byte of the code.

> _Tip:_ Click Notifications in the sidebar after calling the service and follow the instructions to make sure you are pressing the button at the right time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Tip:_ Select Notifications in the sidebar after calling the service and follow the instructions to make sure you are pressing the button at the right time.
```

#### Learning a sequence of commands

> In order to streamline the learning process, you may want to provide a list of commands to be learned sequentially:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to streamline the learning process you may want to provide a list of commands to be learned sequentially:
```

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
script:
  learn_tv_commands:
    sequence:
      - service: remote.learn_command
        target:
          entity_id: remote.bedroom
        data:
          device: television
          command:
            - turn on
            - turn off
            - volume up
            - volume down
```

> After calling this service, you will be prompted to press the buttons in the same order as provided. Check the notifications to stay on track and make sure you are pressing the right button at the right time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After calling this service you will be prompted to press the buttons in the same order as provided. Check the notifications to stay on track and make sure you are pressing the right button at the right time.
```

#### Learning an alternative code

Some protocols require a toggle bit to distinguish one button press from another. In such cases, learning an alternative code will significantly increase the response rate of the device.

The toggle bit is common when a button is used for multiple purposes, such as the power button, which can turn the television on and off, and the volume button, which can be used with a short press or a long press.

If the code works sometimes, and sometimes it doesn't, you can try to relearn it with the `alternative: true` option:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
script:
  learn_tv_power_button:
    sequence:
      - service: remote.learn_command
        target:
          entity_id: remote.bedroom
        data:
          device: television
          command: power
          alternative: true
```

> When the LED blinks for the first time, press the button you want to learn. Then wait for the LED to blink again and press the same button. By doing so, two different codes will be learned for the same command, and they will be sent alternately at each call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the LED blinks for the first time, press the button you want to learn. Then wait for the LED to blink again and press the same button. This wil cause two different codes will be learned for the same command and they will be sent alternately at each call.
```
